# <a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array-ii/description/?envType=study-plan-v2&envId=top-interview-150">80. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array II</a>

### Description

> Tags: *Array, Two pointers*



- Given an integer array `nums` sorted in non-decreasing order, remove some duplicates `in-place` such that each unique element appears at most `twice`. The relative order of the elements should be kept the `same`.

- Since it is impossible to change the length of the array in some languages, you must instead have the result be placed in the first part of the array `nums`. More formally, if there are `k` elements after removing the duplicates, then the first `k` elements of `nums` should hold the final result. It does not matter what you leave beyond the first `k` elements.

- Return `k` after placing the final result in the first `k` slots of `nums`.

Do not allocate extra space for another array. You must do this by modifying the input array in-place with O(1) extra memory.

Custom Judge:

The judge will test your solution with the following code:

```
int[] nums = [...]; // Input array
int[] expectedNums = [...]; // The expected answer with correct length

int k = removeDuplicates(nums); // Calls your implementation

assert k == expectedNums.length;
for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) {
    assert nums[i] == expectedNums[i];
}
```
If all assertions pass, then your solution will be accepted.


 
Example 1:
```
Input: nums = [1,1,1,2,2,3]
Output: 5, nums = [1,1,2,2,3,_]
Explanation: Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums being 1, 1, 2, 2 and 3 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
```
Example 2:
```
Input: nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3]
Output: 7, nums = [0,0,1,1,2,3,3,_,_]
Explanation: Your function should return k = 7, with the first seven elements of nums being 0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3 and 3 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
```

Constraints:
```
`1 <= nums.length <= 3 * 10^4`
`-100 <= nums[i] <= 100`
`nums` is sorted in `non-decreasing order
```

> steps: two pointer approach

The two-pointer approach in this scenario involves using two pointers, `i` and `j`, where `i` iterates through the array, and `j` keeps track of the position where elements satisfying the constraint are being stored.

- Initialization: Initialize `j` to `1` since the first element (at index 0) is always considered part of the modified array.
- Iteration: Loop through the array starting from index `1` (i.e., i = 1). Compare the current element at index `i` with the element two positions behind at index `j - 2`. If they are the same, it means there are already two occurrences of this element in the modified array, so skip adding another. If they are different, add the current element to the modified array at position `j` and increment `j`.
Final Result: The final length of the modified array is equal to `j`, and the modified array contains elements adhering to the constraint.

## CODE
```python
class Solution:
    def removeDuplicates(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        j=1
        for i in range(1, len(nums)):
            if j==1 or nums[i]!= nums[j-2]:
                nums[j]=nums[i]
                j+=1
        return j   
```

> Complexity
- Time Complexity: O(n)
- Space Complexity: O(1)
