# <a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/summary-ranges/description/?envType=study-plan-v2&envId=top-interview-150">228. Summary Ranges</a>

### Description

> Tags: *Array*


You are given a sorted unique integer array `nums`.

A range `[a,b]` is the set of all integers from `a to b` (inclusive).

Return the smallest sorted list of ranges that cover all the numbers in the array exactly. That is, each element of `nums` is covered by exactly one of the ranges, and there is no integer `x` such that `x` is in one of the ranges but not in `nums`.

Each range `[a,b]` in the list should be output as:

- `"a->b"` if `a != b`
- `"a"` if `a == b`

 
Example 1:
```
Input: nums = [0,1,2,4,5,7]
Output: ["0->2","4->5","7"]
Explanation: The ranges are:
[0,2] --> "0->2"
[4,5] --> "4->5"
[7,7] --> "7"
```
Example 2:
```
Input: nums = [0,2,3,4,6,8,9]
Output: ["0","2->4","6","8->9"]
Explanation: The ranges are:
[0,0] --> "0"
[2,4] --> "2->4"
[6,6] --> "6"
[8,9] --> "8->9"
```
Constraints:
```
- `0 <= nums.length <= 20`
- `-2^31 <= nums[i] <= 2^31 - 1`
- All the values of `nums` are unique.
- `nums` is sorted in ascending order.


```
> steps:

- First, we check if the input list nums is empty. If it is, we return an empty list since there are no ranges to summarize.
- Initialize an empty list called ranges to store the summarized ranges.
Set the `start` variable to the first element of the nums list. This will be the starting point of the current range.
- Iterate over the nums list starting from the second element (index 1) using a for loop.
- For each iteration, compare the current element `nums[i]` with the previous element `nums[i-1]`. If they are not consecutive (i.e., nums[i] is not equal to nums[i-1] + 1), it means the current range has ended.
- In this case, we need to add the summarized range to the ranges list. We check if the `start` value is `equal` to the previous element (nums[i-1]). If they are equal, it means the range consists of only one number. So we append the string representation of start to the ranges list.
- If the `start` value is `different` from the previous element, it means the range has more than one number. In this case, we append the string representation of start concatenated with "->" and the string representation of the previous element (nums[i-1]) to the ranges list.
- After adding the summarized range, we update the start variable to the current element (nums[i]) since it will be the starting point of the next range.
- After the loop, we need to handle the last range. We check if the start value is equal to the last element of nums (nums[-1]). If they are equal, it means the last range consists of only one number. So we append the string representation of start to the ranges list.
- If the start value is different from the last element, it means the last range has more than one number. In this case, we append the string representation of start concatenated with "->" and the string representation of the last element (nums[-1]) to the ranges list.
- Finally, we return the ranges list, which contains the summarized ranges as strings.



## CODE
```python
class Solution:
    def summaryRanges(self, nums):
        if not nums:
            return []

        ranges = []
        start = nums[0]
        for i in range(1,len(nums)):
            if nums[i] != nums[i-1]+1:
                if start == nums[i-1]:
                    ranges.append(str(start))
                else:
                    ranges.append(str(start) + '->' + str(nums[i-1]))
                start = nums[i]

        if start == nums[-1]:
            ranges.append(str(start))
        else:
            ranges.append(str(start) + '->' + str(nums[-1]))
        return ranges                         
```

> Complexity
- Time complexity: O(n)
- Space complexity:O(1)



